Iterated narration

- Procedure:
	- iterated narration study (participants read a story and reproduce them in several generations; how does the story develop?)
	- in a seperate study, participants rate (maybe only in first and final story in chain) how likely it is in their opinion that the suspect from the story is in fact guilty

- Stimuli:
	- 3 stories, each occurring in 2 conditions
	- stories: Arson, Bees, Smuggler
	- conditions: free, jail
	- style of the stories: short paragraphs written in a sober, news-article style
	- content of the stories: report about a crime and the arrest of a suspect/several suspects; each story contains a very similar amount of likelihood, impreciseness and discreteness terms (see table below)
	- a story in the "free" condition differs from a story in the "jail" condition in its last sentence; it either enforces or dispirits the reader's belief that the suspect is in fact guilty

Overview on the number of expressions per seed (and the level of how crucial they are to the story)
(For a more detailed description with examples, see iterated\_narration/experiments/01\_pilot/07\_revised06/seeds/readme.md)

|               | Arson     | Bees        | Smuggler      |
|---------------|-----------|-------------|---------------|
| Likelihood    | 2 (5,4)   | 2 (5,4)     | 3 (5,4,4)     |
| Impreciseness | 3 (4,4,2) | 4 (4,4,4,2) | 4 (4,4,4,2)   |
| Discreteness  | 3 (4,3,1) | 2 (4,3)     | 1 (4)         |

- Main question:
	- Do we find a different use in hedges when we reassure vs. dispirit the reader's belief that the suspect is in fact responsible?

- Other thoughts:
	- Do we influence "being plead guilty" and "being guilty" (it often seems to be the case, that people assume the suspect is guilty and as soon as vagueness comes into play, they just start question whether they will receive their "deserved" punishment)? Is this a strong prior coming into play?
	- Why do hedges and approximators sometimes appear/change for something more meaningful (e.g., include "nearly")? Emotions?

- Analysis thoughts:
	- Vagueness
		- all dependent on presence/absence of information itself, therefore "given the information survives..."
			- number of changes of approximator presence (introduction/exclusion) *(independent of chains & generations)*
			- number of changes of approximator direction *(independent of chains & generations)*
			- in which generation does originally approximated information lose its approximator
		- how many percent of info that used to have an approximator in original seed survive until the end
		- how many percent of the approximators survive until the end
		- given the information survives, how likely is the presence of an approximator in every generation
	- Likelihood
		- subjective judgments
			- conduct separate study where we ask "How likely is it in your opinion, that the person/main characters in the story actually committed this crime?" for original seeds and (all or only the final generation?) reproductions
		- count number of "if","probably","likely","could",... and whether it's talked about the person's guilt, the prove of guilt or both;
			- how many likelihood/conditional terms survive until the last generation overall?
			- how many likelihood/conditional terms survive until the last generation in which category (person's guilt vs. prove of guilt)?
			- which category survives the most?
			- in which generation does person's guilt/prove of guilt lose its likelihood/conditional terms

- Big questions that we might touch upon in the long run:
	- Humans are confronted with news every day. Articles are perceived, processed, recollected, reproduced. So far, a news article which is factually correct and written in a sober and neutral way is perceived as an excellent and reliable source. But the human recollection process is noisy. It is known that humans show difficulties in correctly processing and retrieving imprecise and vague information. Through this research, we could come closer to answer what influence a strong belief about the guilt of the suspect has on vague expressions in reproductions. We expect that just speaking of a suspect instead of a committer might not be enough for consumers to actually perceive them as such, but that explicit doubt needs to be present to ensure a transfer of this vagueness over several generations of reproductions. Therefore, even a rationally completely correct article might not be written in a way that humans can actually retrieve the vagueness expressed in it later on and therefore it might not be an ideal way of communicating what needs to be communicated.
